# patcher

## Automated Parameter Setting for Audio Replication

This project aims to automate setting audio plugin parameters to approximate a
given sample (synthesis) or a before-and-after sample (effects).

Form 1) Given an audio sample and a virtual synthesizer, automate finding
settings that approximate the sound as closely as possible (where settings
could include controller inputs in addition to parameters). 

Form 2) Given two audio samples (before and after), automate finding settings
for a virtual effect or effect chain that approximates the audio
transformation.

In both cases, I would imagine a final product could find not just static
parameter settings but inputs (midi) and dynamic parameter settings, allowing
you to drag a sound into a DAW plugin and it would automatically set up a track
and generate midi and parameter automations.

I’m mostly interested in this from a technical perspective, but I feel like it
would make a useful tool. Two use cases would be 1) replacing sample packs, now
you could find a sound you liked and approximate it quickly, then tweak from
there, 2) an artistic device, for example allowing you to approximate sounds
not generated by synthesizers with synthesizers. Both cases can already be done
by people who are skilled in using a synth, but especially for many-parameter
effects this could be a useful tool or learning aid. Programming FM synths, for
example, is quite unintuitive, and this could aid in that.

On the technical side, depending on the exact formalization of the problem,
this would use some form of global optimization, bandit algorithms, or
reinforcement learning. It would also rely on sound similarity metrics (which
I've started reading about and are quite interesting on their own), and
potentially audio embeddings or sequence neural nets for audio processing. 
